[Applause]
thank
you president Jameson Bros Jackson the
board The
Faculty Scholars fellow honores and
friends and most importantly thank you
and an enormous
congratulations to the graduates and
their
families class of
2024 give yourself an Applause and don't
stop until your heart is filled with
Applause
[Applause]
I'm deeply honored I'm imagining that
you're applauding in your brains at the
same time as I speak I'm deeply honored
and humbled to participate at your
commencement every graduation marks two
transitions a birth and a
death it would be tempting and easy of
course to begin with the birth and yes I
will come to
that but perhaps surprisingly allow me
to begin with the latter with
death by this time you've probably
realized that this is not going to be a
typical commencement
speech but parents and graduates don't
worry this is not a morbid talk but an
uplifting one it's a talk that I hope
that you will remember humbly as you
think about your own birth and your
Rejuvenation this talk is
titled four
offerings two statements and two
questions but first some
context I'm a physican
Ian a physician scientist and an
oncologist I seek cancer patients and my
goal is to treat and sometimes cure the
deadliest of
diseases and despite having a higher
degree in
overeducation as the Provost pointed
out I
fail I fail
often there's a common Tru written into
the conventional ethos of medicine that
the patient fails the
treatment but for me the Trope is almost
always
reversed I fail the
patient what happens at that
moment here we arrive at the most
profound of
Transitions and we arrive at a moment
that is
Elemental ancient and Universal a moment
that we have
encountered since the very birth of our
species I have to State the obvious not
experienced it myself but I've borne
witness to it more than a thousand
times a 7-year-old girl with Advanced
leukemia died in a clinical trial last
month her heart fluttering at 300 beats
per minute in her l few seconds as she
clutched her mother's
hand a young English Professor with
ovarian cancer who was denied her dream
to finish her last
book an elderly man with prostrate
cancer who had just welcomed a
grandchild in the days before these
patients and many others like them have
died I've asked them if there were
things that they would have wanted to do
or say if in anticipation of that final
moment and of course the answers have
been Broad and
diverse some have wanted to climb
mountains some to read a poem I heard a
fly
Buzz some have wanted to rage against
fate some have wanted peace and
sanctity but over time
over time I began to see a
pattern a
universality a
convergence abstracted
simplified denuded stripped of
particulars every person that I've met
at this moment of transition wanted to
make four
offerings two statements and two
questions
I want to tell you that I love
you I want to tell you that I forgive
you would you tell me that you love me
would you give me your
forgiveness four
offerings offerings so important and
profound that I must force
myself even as I speak to the most
attentive and sympathetic of audiences
to repeat them
I want to tell you that I love
you I want to tell you that I forgive
you would you tell me that you love
me would you give me your
forgiveness love and
forgiveness death and
transition but what you may ask now does
any of this have to do with
graduation perhaps you're thinking oh
God he's brought the wrong papers to the
speech this was the one he wrote for the
funeral but no since we've already
broken the rules of a commencement
speech let's continue to break some
more I want you to perform an
exercise some of you are sitting next to
friends some with parents some are
together some are
dispersed please do this for me close
your eyes if you'd
like turn to someone that matters in
your life turn mentally turn
physically and say to them I want to
tell you that I love
you I want to tell you that I forgive
you would you tell me that you love
me would you grant me your
forgiveness do this afternoon if you
wish
to do it as you walk out of the stadium
or do it when you're at
home packing your suitcases for the new
life that is waiting for you in New York
or Toledo or Acra or New Delhi but do it
now at this moment of transition don't
wait for the moment that you're
inhabiting experiencing encountering
also marks a transition a birth and a
death and here's the Crux this is the
lesson that we can learn from dying that
we can also apply to life and to living
waiting merely delays the inevitable do
it perhaps when you cross the door or as
you depart for the airport with your
over stuffed suitcases just as you will
do it when you await the final
Crossing when there's nothing to C carry
and only a lonely boat to help you
cross and now we move to the other
transition
birth I told you these were four
offerings but I could have also
described them as four
responsibilities you have just completed
one of the most mind broadening
educations on the planet at the
University of
Pennsylvania I want to offer you
profound congratulations on this
transition but I also want to you offer
you one personal experience that has
guided my own
life I'm the child of a
refugee I'm the child of a refugee in
1946 a few weeks before the partition of
India a transition so gory and
bloodstained that def that defies words
and memory my grandmother a young Widow
then left what is now Bangladesh with
five boys and a steel
suitcase she arrived in Kolkata a
nervous back Broken City on the edge of
riots a city already inflamed
overburdened ravaged and
spent she set up a room she set up a
home in a one room
tenament the five children inhabited one
room and she slept in the makeshift
kitchen
scarcity was their only
abundance and there was only one
luxury
education there was no money for food so
that there would be money for
books at night each of the boys got half
a piece of white paper and a shared
pencil to finish
homework I might note in passing that
over the last 5 years I've written three
papers that have formed the core for the
discovery of three new cancer drugs in
each case the essential idea was
scribbled with a pencil on half a sheet
of white
paper years later when my grandmother
came to live with us in Delhi the steel
suitcase that had been fied across so
many cities came with her but it LED in
the back of her closet sealed shut no
one knew what it
contained no one knew she would Parry
questions about it and it was slowly
forgotten so when she died we opened the
suitcase and of course there were some
predictable objects MOS of ardor memory
and Desperation grabbed and packed in
the last minute before a terrifying
Crossing some jewelry a portrait letters
an old white Shaw pockmarked by
moths but in the midst of all this
wrapped in cloth were four school
books
books books who drags books across a
deadly
border and across multiple
cities some years before she had died I
had asked her what I was to do with the
contents of the steel suitcase and she
had said mysteriously give them
back but the content was so outdated
that there was no giving back it left me
mystified who would care about a math
textbook from the
1940s in 1986 when I was 16 I walked
into the library at Berkeley University
there were shelves upon shelves of
books Einstein Newton roomie
the lives of a cell France fenon Baldwin
Dickinson
Monroe in looking longingly at those
overstuffed shells from which knowledge
might perhaps just slos
out or truth might slosh out like golden
liquid if I just gave the rack a small
jolt I decided that I too would make a
transition I would also pick up a
suitcase and migrate seeking a new life
new truths new knowledge and new
books it would be unseemly and frankly
desecrating to make any comparison
between my grandmother's migration and
mine but in keeping with the family
tradition I too underwent a
transition and a
rebirth I came to study abroad Crossing
many borders and living in many cities
but it was only after I had finished
medical school in my late 20s that I
returned to my grandmother's
request give them
back stupid stupid me it wasn't the
books stupid with their outdated
equations and old school writing it was
the responsibility that comes with
Transitions and with rebirth and it was
perhaps a reformulation of the four
offerings I want to understand how to
return
love I want to
forgive I want you to return my love I
want to understand how to accept
forgiveness and that's what comes with
your rebirth as graduates please please
take this seriously believe me I cannot
ignore the tumult of the world around us
you're entering a word world where love
and forgiveness have become meaningless
outdated platitudes like old
textbooks there are words people have
learned to laugh at perhaps you are
laughing at them
too but I dare you to use these words
meaningfully again use them but not as
empty cliches imbue them with real
meaning do it your way whatever your way
is but do it with the real conviction
that you are returning ing love and
returning forgiveness at this moment of
transition and of
rebirth and of the horrifying numbing
despair around you dare dare to return
love and
forgiveness to an unforgiving and
Unforgiven world
I'm almost done it doesn't escape me
that I titled my speech the four
offerings that word offering it is
operative here for it implies not just
an acceptance at death but a giving at
Birth do both and do both of them with
the utmost
conviction I wish you the best
and here's my last offering please
please in this season of All
Seasons especially in these times and as
we end with offering and
giving please don't forget to vote thank
you